
                                    /'
                                  /'
                       ____     /' ____     ____           .    ,
            /'    /  /'    )--/' /'    )  /'    )  /'    /  \  /
          /'    /' /'    /' /' /(___,/' /'    /' /'    /'    \'
         (___,/(__(___,/'  (__(________(___,/(__(___,/(____/' \_ 
            /'
    /     /'
   (___,/'

Yoleaux is a brand spankin' new utilikilt-wearin' Internet Relay Chat
robot for the internet. Yoleaux is written in Ruby, has a clean(-ish),
modular(-ish) preforking architecture and is generally steamin' cool.

     _______________________________
    ( Sounds good. How do I use it? )
     -------------------------------
            o   ^__^
             o  (oo)\_______
                (__)\       )\/\
                    ||----w |
                    ||     ||

Assuming that you've downloaded the bot, which can be done from this
'ere link: <http://dpk.io/yoleaux.tar.gz> -- the process of installing
it is actually quite simple. Having unpacked that archive, you should
`cd` into the directory therein and type `./yoleaux create`, which will
set up the initial configuration and pop open your favourite text editor
on the configuration file. The configuration file is written in YAML, so
it's easy to read and write. You will probably wish to change the bot's
nick and add some channels for him to join. Some administrative commands
are built into the bot which will edit the configuration file for you
once the bot is running. See CONFIG for a list of all the things you can
change in the configuration file.

Having set things up just so in the config file, typing `./yoleaux run`
will kick things off and get the bot running. Yoleaux always runs in the
foreground; use an external script if you want to daemonise the bot.
Likewise, logs cannot be printed anywhere other than standard-out; use
a pipe to write them to a file.

                               ____________________________
                              ( No, but how do I *use* it? )
                               ----------------------------
                                               ^__^   o
                                       _______/(oo)  o
                                   \/\(       /(__)
                                      | w----||                    
                                      ||     ||

Ah, I see. Yoleaux currently supports only a small subset of the
commands it will hopefully someday support. Here's a quick overview of
the most useful commands that work so far:

    command       what in the heck it does

    g             Searches Google
    wik           Searches Wikipedia
    wa            Queries Wolfram Alpha
    c             Calculates with Google
    title         Gets the title of a link
    in            Sets a reminder for you
    to/tell/ask   Sends a message to someone when they're next available
    u             Searches for a Unicode character

There's also a very nifty services system, whereby any user of the bot
can add their own commands, provided that they don't trample on any
existing command names.

    <dpk> .add-command something http://example.com/service.cgi
    <yoleaux> Added command something: oblique service. (Please add a
              help string with ".command-help something ...")
    <dpk> .something
    <yoleaux> This is the output of the web service!

The URL can be any valid oblique service URL:
https://github.com/nslater/oblique

    ____________________________________
   ( Can I make commands elsewise, too? )
    ------------------------------------
           o   ^__^
            o  (oo)\_______
               (__)\       )\/\
                   ||----w |
                   ||     ||

Yes! Commands are divided into 'command sets' or 'packages'. Think up a
name for your package, say, xyzzy, and make a file in the commands
directory called xyzzy. Put something like this in it:

    command_set :xyzzy do
      helpers do
        def plugh
          "Plugh!"
        end
      end
      
      command :do_something, 'This is the command help string' do
        respond plugh
      end
    end

You can look at the existing packages to see the sorts of things you can
do with commands.

                              ______________________________________ 
                             ( What's the story of this 'ere robot? )
                              -------------------------------------- 
                                                       ^__^   o
                                               _______/(oo)  o
                                           \/\(       /(__)
                                              | w----||                    
                                              ||     ||

Once there was a bot called Phenny. She was written in Python 2, she
used threads all over the shop, and her creator was Sean B. Palmer, also
known as sbp. Then, PYTHON3™ happened. sbp sent a decree through the
land, "NIHIL FILUM TUTUM EST", and set to work on a PYTHON3™ version of
Phenny. The new bot, the knight Duxlot, was much ador'd, but sbp was
unhappy because, by his reckoning, his process-based architecture was
just as bad as the thread-based architecture which Phenny had used. He
cast them both off, declaring himself disgusted with them.

David P. Kendal had an idea for how to resolve these issues. He made a
bot called Fauxlot, which also used a process-based architecture, but in
a very different way, which seemed not to exhibit those problems. He
worked a little more on it, then, one day, the bot we know as Yoleaux
popped out of his keyboard and into his computer.

     ______________________________ 
    ( Who made this thing, anyway? )
     ------------------------------ 
            o   ^__^
             o  (oo)\_______
                (__)\       )\/\
                    ||----w |
                    ||     ||

Yoleaux was principally written by David Kendal. However, many parts
where inspired by the sbpware which preceded it, and as such dpk owes
a huge thanks to Sean B. Palmer: many of the commands are direct Ruby
translations of sbp's original Python code for Phenny and Duxlot. dpk
also owes Noah Slater a megathank for complaining at him about things
which are broken / changed compared to Phenny and Duxlot, which he
undoubtedly will do. Noah also inadvertently named the bot. I must also
credit Matt Read and Mark E. Shoulson for helping me to debug.
